Alright. In this video, we are gonna
take a look at using postman and you can
see that I have postman up on my screen
here. Now if you go out to the URL of get
postman.com, it is available for most
popular operating systems and that would
be Mac OS, of course. But also, if you are
happen to be using Windows or Linux, it
is also available for those operating
systems as well. And we are gonna step
through and take a look at this. And I'm
gonna slide this off to the corner of
the screen here. Because I do have a dual
monitor setup. And I'm gonna be using a
website here called apifaketory. So it's
a fake API. And it's gonna give us a
chance to work with a GET request. And
over here, I have a list of users.
This is gonna require a limit. And we
do have to specify a number here. Let's
go ahead and I'm gonna click try here.
And it gives us a chance to try it. And
do know you do have to provide a number.
So I'm gonna put 12 there. I'm
gonna say Call Resource and we're gonna
see that this website is going out there.
It's making a request from that. And
we can see, here's the response. So it
comes back with this generic
data set. So this is a JSON response in
the body. So we can see the JSON format.
It's got a data and a list of objects
there. And let's go ahead and take a look
at this in postman. And we're gonna copy
this URL here. So we have this, and I want
to show you how to use this inside of
postman. I'm gonna slide postman back
over here. And I'm gonna say paste that.
And now, we can also go in and say Params
and take a look here. So that it was
called the limit. I'm just gonna do 10
this time. And if we click on Send, that's
gonna go out and send the request.
Now we can see that we have a different
data set. So see that we do have some
different names there but it does go out
and give us 10 user objects ,10 different
users for our purposes.
We can see that, this is a pretty
nice little data model that we have to
work with. So this JSON is gonna come
back to us and the some that we can
ingest from the the web service. And we
could see that it took about a second to
run. We got a status of 200 saying OK
and a couple other things that we can
see inside of this. No cookies for us. We
did have a set of headers here. So
these are headers that we sent and don't
have any tests available. I've really implied
with tests inside a postman.
But you do get to see some interesting
stuff. As far as what was sent in it.
And do remember that this is going
over the HTTP protocol. And if we wanted
to, we can run this through some type of
proxy and see the exact exactly what was
sent. But in this case, we do not need to.
I'm gonna show you here. If we
change this to just 2 and you can see
how that dynamically changed. So it's
actually kind of a nice feature there.
You can edit at either spot but doing it
this way, it's gonna create that URL
query string for us automatically when
we set these up. And then, I can toggle
that on and off also. Kind of a nice
little feature a postman. And now, let's
take a look at the body and we can see
that now we have less data. So we only
get two user objects. So we have a male
with a Ms. Kiera. So that's kind of
interesting. So this is what happens when
you use randomized data coming back. Now
postman is a tool that I often use to
test and exercise RESTful API. It's a
really nice tool. If you are being a
client of a REST API, I highly checked
to just checking out this tool. It's
a really one of my go-to tool. So it's
something that I really enjoy working
with. Now of course the Spring Framework
does have a couple different methods for
us to exercise REST APIs. I wanted to
show you how to exercise this API
program or through postman first. And
then in the rest of the section we're
actually gonna be playing around with
its API. So, to work with it more but
we're gonna start doing it
programmatically using the tools
with inside the Spring framework. So
we've got some really cool stuff coming
up.
Next few videos here that I wanna show
you about using the Spring Framework to
use and start utilizing data from this
RESTful API.